
水 氷 永
Notes: extra dash on the second one, extra dash and hook top of vertical on the third one.
As combining forms, the first and second ones (water and ice) occur as 氵 and 冫 respectively; the third one finds use as a phonetic, notably 泳 (“swim, dive”).
下 卞
Notes: Extra stroke at top of the second one.
The first one is very common, the latter is specialized and relatively rare.
矢 失 先 (and 夭)
Notes: in the first one, the vertical strokes forms a T, rather than crossing the top horizontal; the bottom strokes form a point in the second one, but are separate in the third one (compare 大 六).
The first one is a radical (矢), and is also used in compound characters even when not the radical, as in 医.
The second and third ones are primarily used in isolation, though they appear in a few compound characters, such as 鉄 (for 失) and 洗 兟 (for 先).
Also, the second and third ones both appear in the common Japanese phrase お先に失礼します (“See you (I am leaving before you.)”)
Beware also of 夭, which is used in a number of compound characters; see below.
夭 天 夫 无
Notes: angled top stroke in the first one, horizontal top stroke forming a T in the second one, horizontal top stroke forming a cross (+) in the third one, different bottom strokes (especially bottom right) in the fourth one (compare 大 and 尢).
The first one (夭) is used in some compound characters, such as 笑, while the second and third ones (天 夫) are used in isolation, and the last is a radical, used in some characters – see Appendix:Chinese radical/无
The second one (天) is a very commonly used character, while the fourth one (无) is a Simplified Chinese character.
The second and fourth ones appear in the Chinese idiom 无法无天 (wúfǎwútiān, “unruly, no respect for law and order”) (traditional 無法無天／无法无天 (wúfǎwútiān)).
刀 万 方
人 入
Notes: added hook at top of the second one.
In some print fonts, characters have symmetric legs, and are easily confused; in handwriting, they are further distinguished by having asymetric legs: 入 has a shorted left leg and looks like λ (lambda), while 人 has a shorter right leg and looks like a backwards λ.
又 夂 攵 女 夕
Note the number of strokes (2, 3, 4, 3, 3), and whether the horizontal line intersects the leftmost vertical line.
船 般
Notes: the first one has 口 at bottom right, while the second one has 又.
In some fonts the first one also uses 儿 rather than 几.